A thesis project is a capstone in undergraduate and graduate education, and as such, it builds and tests the skills and knowledge acquired during your education and training to become professionals. The thesis project is different from a traditional course in several ways; in its size, in its goals, in the form of examination, in the form of supervision and in the form of communication (personal dialogue, as opposed to lectures). 
While traditional courses include lectures and lab work, where the focus is on acquiring knowledge in a specific subject area, the thesis project focuses on deepening your understanding of a subject. But above all, it should give you
training in carrying out projects independently, at an advanced level, using a sound method.

The second goal is the “research” part of the project, in which you will deepen your understanding of the subject area, and contribute to the common knowledge and understanding of the subject area. However, to attain this goal, your project must have aspects that are original. In other words, it is generally not enough to repeat the work of others, since it is regarded as a waste of resources (time, money etc), unless, that is, your purpose is to confirm or reject previous findings. The gains from your project are based on the contribution it makes, i.e. the development of knowledge and results that were not known before you started the project, and on the fact that the findings will have been disseminated.

Part of the purpose of carrying out a thesis project is to get training in the use of a scientific method, which can then be applied when structuring and solving more complex problems.

Up to now, we have elaborated on research and its relationship with development activities in different environments, ranging from scientific research carried out at research institutes, via research and development, to product development in industrial and organisational settings. While the notion of research and the outcome may differ in these environments, a core aspect is the systematic process by which such activities are undertaken. It is our view that thesis projects share this core aspect, even if the outcome is not necessarily intended as a scientific contribution.

Research comprises defining and redefining problems, formulating hypothesis or suggested solutions; collecting, organising and evaluating data; making deductions and
reaching conclusions; and at last carefully testing the conclusions to determine whether they fit the formulating hypothesis.

Qualitative research is often associated with fieldwork and analysis in a limited number of organizational settings.

DESCRIPTION
Reveal nature of certain situations, settings, processes and relationship.
INTERPRETATION
Enables researcher to gain new insight about a particular phenomena and develop new concepts or theoretical background about the research issue.
VERIFICATION
Allow researchers to test the validity of certain assumptions, Theories and claims within real world contexts.
EVALUATION
Provide a mean which a researcher can evaluate effectiveness of particular findings or innovations

Types of Methods: https://www.acumenfieldwork.com/what-are-the-six-types-of-qualitative-research/
Phenomenology uses methods such as observation and interview to try to work out why people make the decisions they make outside of purely logical reasons
Researchers using the ethnographic research model look to observe how people act, or how they use a product rather than how they might self-report they use it.
When using grounded theory approach to qualitative research, the aim would be to see what questions and theories emerge from the data set. The research may start with either a question, or just a quantity of research data. This would then be studied and theories allowed to emerge. Emerging theories could be grouped and then further analysis developed. The qualitative method is looking to theorise why people may act as they do, the action itself having been observed in the phenomenological stage. Grounded theory is likely to be a research method that builds upon earlier work, demonstrating the joined-up nature of qualitative research; it is unusual for one method on its own to deliver true insight. 
A case study model focuses in on one thing – an individual, a family, a business or other and takes an in-depth view.
The historical method uses past events as a means to explain the current.
The narrative model is a form of qualitative research that is formed over time, observations and notes taken at every stage similar to the narrative of a story.

The goal of quantitative research and methods is to develop models, theories, and hypotheses pertaining to natural phenomena. The quantitative aspect is to emphasize that measurement is fundamental since it gives the connection between observation and the formalization of the model, theory and hypothesis.

Purposes:
STATISTICAL MODEL
•It uses mathematical measurement to understand the behaviour under study.

OBJECTIVITY
•More reliable and subjectivity of researcher are reduced.

REPLICATION
•It is a cornerstone for detecting fraud  findings to judge the internal validity.

GENERALISATION
•Use statistics to generalise findings.

CAUSE AND EFFECT RELATIONSHIP
•It defines cause and effect relationship between problems and factors.


Descriptive Research 
This method is focused on the “what” question. It is used to describe the current status or circumstance of the factor being studied. Researchers using this method do not generally begin with a hypothesis. Rather, they develop one after collecting the data. Variables are not manipulated in this type of research and researchers do not use the law of probability. Survey research with large data sets falls into this design category.

Correlational Research
This method is used to study relationships between factors, which are measured and recorded as research variables. This kind of research is used to detect trends and patterns in data. In a correlational study, variables are not manipulated. Thus, the results are not sufficient to establish the causes of the patterns and trends discovered. We can have correlational associated or correlational predictive designs.

Experimental Class Research 
The experimental method studies whether there is a cause-and-effect relationship between the research variables. The researcher controls or manipulates an independent variable to measure its effect on one or more dependent variables. This kind of research is commonly used in science fields such as sociology, psychology, chemistry and physics. Experimental class research includes a variety of designs such as pre- experimental, quasi-experimental and true experimental, and typically include parameters such as random or non-random assignment, manipulation of variables, and use of a control group.

Comparative Research 
This method focuses on comparisons. Researchers study groups that are pre-existing rather than created for the study. As in experimental research, the focus is the effect of an independent variable on a dependent variable. The difference is that there is either no control group, no random selection or no active manipulation variable. Comp

Two common types of descriptive projects. In the first type, the aim is to categorise and compare previous work within a subject area. This may include objectives such as (1) categorising previous work, (2) selecting comparison criteria, and (3) comparing previous work with respect to the comparison criteria. This type of survey is useful when you want to identify how a subject area has evolved over time, what its current status is, and how it may evolve in the near future.

In the second type of project, the aim is to gain an understanding of the current status of the subject, and to identify important factors. This may include objectives such as (1) selecting questions, (2) interviewing people, and (3) identifying important factors from the interviews.

In a descriptive project, it is important that you do not write a report which is simply a summary of all the literature you have read in the field. Instead you need to, e.g. highlight your analysis of the literature.

In our first example of a theoretical project, the aim is to extend an already existing theory or model; to extend the relational data model with support for business rules. This may include objectives such as (1) identifying the details of the extension (e.g. what types of business rules), (2) introducing the extension to the original theoretical model, and (3) comparing the original theoretical model with the extended version. 
In our second project example, the aim is to compare the support for business rules in two different data models. This project is an example of a comparison between two theoretical models; This may include objectives such as (1) selecting comparison criteria, and (2) analyzing the two data models with respect to the comparison criteria.

As an example of an applied project, the aim can be to gain experience from implementing an algorithm for caching of web data. This may include objectives such as (1) setting up a simulator, (2) implementing the new algorithm, (3) testing and analyzing the results obtained, and (4) suggesting improvements to the algorithm.

Your project has one overall aim. In order to reach the aim, a number of objectives are formulated. Each objective is a small, achievable and assessable unit, i.e. a sub-goal of the project. Objectives should be formulated in such a way that fulfilling the objectives leads to the overall aim being satisfied.

In general terms, by a method we refer to a systematic endeavour to address a problem. In addressing a project’s aim and its associated set of objectives, you need to identify, for each objective, an appropriate method by which it may be reached. 
This does not mean that you need to use the same method for addressing all your objectives. However, in a project which makes use of a combination of methods, the issue of validity becomes more complex. Your choice of methods will have an impact on both the quality of the resulting data and the conclusions you can draw with respect to the overall aim.

When you are in the process of developing objectives and choosing methods, you should consider how the issues of validity and reliability might affect your project.
Briefly, validity is the relationship between what you intend to measure (or examine, or develop) and what you actually measure (or examine, or develop). 
Reliability is the accuracy of your method (e.g. implementation, questionnaire, interview style) in measuring (or examining, or developing), i.e. how robust your method is.

A method is only valid and reliable within a certain range of uses. For example, suppose you have a tape measure. This tool is excellent for measuring how tall you are (high validity), but it is not useful for measuring the height of Mount Everest (low validity). Similarly, a tape measure is not particularly reliable, since stretching of the tape, which is somewhat elastic, can result in inaccurate measurements. In comparison, a steel ruler would be more reliable, since it is more rigid and can not be stretched. Thus, a method that you choose to use in your project is only valid and reliable within a certain range of uses.

- Literature Analysis: In many projects there will be some need for a literature analysis. For example, if you have developed a program for analyzing genome data, then you will need to contrast your program with similar programs that have been reported in the literature. If you have, instead, performed a comprehensive literature analysis on work done for benchmarking database transactions, most of your work will be centered on analyzing the existing literature (e.g. making categorisations and detecting patterns).

- Interviews: An open interview is a form of interview commonly used in qualitative research, where the researcher has no (or only limited) control of the issues raised during the interview session. So, even though the purpose of the interview is clear to the researcher, the specific issues to be covered during the interview session are not planned in advance. Instead, depending on what the interviewee emphasises during the session, the researcher tries to direct the session towards issues which he/she believes the interviewee finds especially important. When questions are asked, they should be phrased in such a way that they “open up” important issues. The interviewee should be allowed to use his/her own words during the session. In general, one should avoid leading and closed questions (i.e. questions to which there is a simple, perhaps even a “yes/no”, answer). An open interview can be characterized as a form of interview in which “control” is very much in the hands of the interviewee.
The advantage of using this style of interviewing is that, if it can be properly mastered, the issues which are of real importance to the interviewee will be addressed. On the negative side, open interview sessions can be difficult, especially for inexperienced interviewers.
A closed interview is characterised by a fixed set of questions, which the interviewer asks during the session. This style of interview is sometimes also referred to as a pre-structured interview, as in its pure form, it does not allow adding or deleting questions depending on the replies. With respect to repeatability, it has an obvious advantage over the open interview. Its drawback, however, is that some questions might be regarded as being of limited relevance by the interviewee, which may influence his or her motivation to give a complete response. This style of interview is common in survey research, and is more suitable if you wish to use statistical methods to analyse the results.

A case study project is undertaken as an in-depth exploration of a phenomenon in its natural setting. A characteristic of a case study is that it involves a limited number of cases, sometimes even a single case. This allows you to undertake a detailed examination of the phenomenon. It has been suggested that the case study method is especially suitable when there is a desire to understand and explain a phenomenon in a field which is not yet well understood. An aspect of case study projects, which needs careful consideration, is the extent to which the findings can, and should be, generalised. In reporting on a case study project, it is of fundamental importance that you can make a detailed characterisation of the important aspects of the case being explored. Otherwise, the value of the findings will be significantly decreased. For example, a study may aim to explore how software developers use tools which support the software development process. The case study may then take place in a specific software development organisation, and focus on examining a certain kind of development tool. Thus, in this case study, the phenomenon to be explored would be a specific type of user and their use of the tool. Hence, the actual study might involve a group of developers who work in the organisation, and concern their perceptions of the role of a tool which they use in their work. However, in reporting from the study, you should aim to generalise from the specific details of the examined setting, attempting to characterise the situation for which the studied organisation is typical. It is important that enough detail is included for this to be possible.

Survey research is closely associated with the use of questionnaires, and statistical techniques for analysing their responses. Such research is often used for exploring a relatively well-known phenomenon, for which there exists a large sample of respondents having some knowledge of the issue of concern. The advantage with this form of research is that, with relatively limited means, you can reach a large number of respondents, and thereby quickly cover a large number of informants. You can quickly reach a very large number of individuals and companies. Also, in a properly designed survey, you can control many uncertainties and estimate (using statistical techniques) the significance of the findings. In addition, as questionnaires are often highly standardised, there is the possibility of automating the handling of responses. An inherent characteristic of surveys is that it is difficult to investigate complicated issues. It is impossible to clarify questions, due to the lack of direct two-way communication between interviewer and interviewee. In fact, it is impossible to know that it is actually the targeted person that replies (or another company representative), and as you will be distanced from the data collection you have little control of this. Another drawback of surveys is that the motivation for participation is often low, and in general it is difficult to achieve high response rates. It has been said about survey research that it is impossible to know the true impressions of the respondents.

Many projects in computer science and information systems consist of developing new solutions. Such a solution can consist of a new software architecture, method, procedure, algorithm, or some other technique, which solves some problem in a new way, which has some advantage over existing solutions. In a project of this type, it is often necessary to implement the proposed solution, in order to demonstrate that it really does possess the proposed advantages. The goal of the implementation, then, is to demonstrate that the solution has certain properties, or that (under certain conditions) it behaves in a specific way. This implementation often needs to be compared with implementations of existing solutions, before conclusions can be drawn. The implementations of the existing solutions may or may not be done by yourself. How should you best evaluate the usefulness of your algorithm? How these questions are solved will depend largely on what type of solution you are proposing, and what the proposed advantages are. For example, a new form of graphical user interface may be evaluated using human subjects who test the interface and are subsequently interviewed. A new data mining algorithm, on the other hand, may be evaluated by using a set of training data to set the parameters of the algorithm, followed by using a set of test data to measure the accuracy of the predictions made by the algorithm.


An experiment focuses on investigating a few variables and the ways in which these are affected by the experimental conditions. Typically, experiments are used to verify or falsify a previously formulated hypothesis. For the purpose of experimental testing, the hypothesis is usually formulated as a causal relationship. An example of such a causal relationship is the hypothesis that including support for graphics in a particular type of software degrades its performance. Experiments are then designed and performed in such a way that the results will either support or falsify the hypothesis that graphics degrade the performance. It is important to note that a positive outcome in an experiment can never be said to “prove” that the hypothesis is correct. This is because there could always be some other explanation for the result. There is also an unlimited number of things that may go wrong in any experiment, and which may lead to erroneous and misleading results. Hence, we may say that a positive outcome lends some support to the hypothesis, but we can never claim that it “proves” its correctness.

In the computer and information sciences experiments are often done by implementing a model of some system and running simulations to see how the model is affected by different variables.
If you are using experiments in your projects, you are advised to consult the literature on experimental design.

There are many different ways a literature analysis can be structured, and there is no “fixed” format to follow. You will have to develop the structure that is best suited for your particular project, the data you have found and the arguments you want to make in your analysis. One of the best ways of learning how to present a literature analysis is to look at examples.
Quite often a literature analysis can be structured in such a way that it provides an argument for a certain idea or interpretation. This argument is then supported and exemplified with material from the literature.
For example, suppose your project is aimed at investigating the potential usefulness of neural networks for predicting crop harvests, and you have chosen literature analysis and implementation of a prototype system as your methods. Your literature analysis can then be structured as an argument for the usefulness of neural networks for this prediction task. Example of how to structure the literature analysis for this example project: 
Start by describing in detail what properties neural networks have, using technical literature on this subject. Continue by describing previous work on crop harvest prediction, including work that has clearly identified and described the reasons for shortcomings of earlier methods. This way, you can identify the properties that a method is expected to have in order to predict crop harvests successfully. You can then conclude your literature analysis by showing that the properties of neural networks match those identified in the literature as being successful. Finally, include any material you have found indicating that neural networks may fail in this task, and describe the arguments stated by those authors.

If you have conducted interviews, the material must now be structured and presented to the reader in an appropriate form. In essence, you have to make a choice as to what to include, ranging from “exact” transcripts (word by word) of entire interviews, to summaries of each interview. If you have used questionnaires you probably want to present your data by using figures or tables

How do you present the implementation in a way which convinces the reader that it is correct? One thing to rule out immediately is to simply list the code, and expect the reader to verify that it is correct. Computer implementations often contain thousands of lines of code, and even a short implementation of a hundred lines or so is hopelessly difficult to verify by manual inspection.

Instead, you have to demonstrate to the reader that you have used good software development practice, and show the steps in the process of developing the implementation. An example is to first show the algorithm in pseudo-code and explain relevant parts of the pseudo-code in writing. You can then show a graphical representation of the code, using, for example, flowcharts or some other graph format, which is appropriate for the particular algorithm at hand. This graphical representation should also be discussed in the text so that the reader has a very clear understanding of it (and is convinced that you do too). Finally, you can present relevant parts of the code, i.e. those parts that contain the key features of the implementation.

Where to put code. Most of the code you write should be placed as an appendix to the report. No one is going to read large amounts of code, and it is therefore just distracting to see it in the middle of the text. However, as mentioned earlier, you can include short sections of code within the text to demonstrate how particular implementation problems were solved, or to demonstrate the absence or presence of particular features.

Other information. Depending on the purpose of the implementation, you may have to provide the reader with other information about the software. Examples include hardware and software requirements, user instructions etc. 
If you have built a simulator you can also validate the implementation by using reference algorithms (i.e. baselines). By doing so you show that your implementation behaves correctly with respect to already established algorithms and baselines.

You may be presenting a numerical comparison of data from experiments or simulations where you have varied one parameter. In such a case, if the system you have studied is stochastic, i.e. if the outcome of an individual run depends to some degree on chance, then it will be necessary to repeat each parameter setting a number of times in order to present the average result from a number of runs. This is because a single run can produce an untypical result by chance. Thus, it is important that any results that are going to be considered when drawing conclusions, are not just random effects. This can be done by applying a test for statistical significance.
It is of vital importance, before attempting to draw any conclusions from data obtained through experiments or simulations, that you apply a suitable test for statistical significance. Failure to do so means that you run the risk of drawing incorrect conclusions, and – of course – that your examiner rejects the conclusions you propose, since they have not been shown to be significant. Which significance test fits your data will depend on the experimental set up and the type of data you have generated. You are therefore strongly advised to consult the statistics literature and to seek the advice of your supervisor on this important issue.

